[Music]
hello there good morning welcome to
breakfast with naga manchetti and john k
our headlines today a final weekend push
to vaccinate the most vulnerable
as the government closes in on its
target of 15 million jabs if you're in
one of those groups
what i'd say is please come forward if
you haven't already got an appointment
to be jabbed
because the more people who get this job
the safer everybody is
the health secretary says he hopes by
the end of this year kovid will have
become
another illness that we just have to
live with like flu
former president donald trump is
expected to be acquitted when senators
vote on his second
impeachment trial later today good
morning resurgent scotland hope to build
on their famous win at twickenham in a
big six
nations clash today but whales have a
winning start of their own to build on
good morning it's another very cold
morning and we've got further snow
and ice in places things are going to
turn windy through the weekend
and milder particularly by tomorrow i'll
have all the details
throughout this morning
good morning it's saturday february the
13th our top story is that senior
ministers will visit coronavirus
vaccination sites across england today
in a final push to ensure everyone who
is eligible
does get inoculated the government set a
target of vaccinating
15 million people by the end of this
weekend
our health correspondent catherine burns
has the latest
it's less than 10 weeks since margaret
keenan became the first person to have a
covert vaccine
outside of clinical trials in the uk it
was the start of the biggest vaccination
program in nhs history
then in mosques and museums stadiums and
pharmacies
more than 1500 centers across the uk
over 14 million people have had a first
dose of the covid vaccine
the government target was to offer that
first dose to about
15 million people by the 15th of
february
those in the top priority group include
care home staff and residents
frontline health workers anyone aged
70 or over and people who are extremely
clinically vulnerable
ministers expected that around three
quarters of people who were offered the
vaccine would accept it
the reality has been much higher about 9
in 10 over 70s
but there's still a final push
encouraging those who are yet to be
vaccinated
to come forward we're totally focused on
meeting the target of offering by monday
everybody who's age over 70 or a health
and social care worker
or who's clinically extremely vulnerable
offering them all
the jab and if you're in one of those
groups what i'd say is
please come forward if you haven't
already got an appointment to be jabbed
because the more people who get this job
the safer everybody is
the job is far from over though now as
well as giving second booster injections
the focus turns to over 50s the aim is
to offer a first dose vaccine to them by
may and all adults by september the
government and the nhs will work with
local authorities
charities and faith leaders to achieve
this catherine burns
bbc news let's get the laces now from
our political correspondent nick early
nick morning to you
um so optimism i think is the
mood of our health secretary this
morning i think that's right
morning naga for a couple of reasons one
is that the vaccination program as
catherine was just saying there
seems to be going really well the
target's likely to be met
of everybody over 70 being vaccinated
this weekend that then moves on to
looking at people over 50 and ministers
think that's all going
pretty well the other thing that matt
hancock's talking about
in an interview with the telegraph this
morning is better treatment for
coronavirus and the government is
announcing this morning
that it's going to fast-track some new
drugs when they become available
to make sure that people who do still
get ill are
treated the best way possible and it all
means that
ministers are talking about potentially
by the end of this year coronavirus
being a lot more
manageable more like flu something that
yes is still there but that there's
treatment for and that the nhs can cope
with
and if inevitably that means that there
are questions
over when society will start to open up
when lockdown
will be lifted now number 10 isn't
getting into specifics but
we know that the prime minister is going
to set that out in a couple of weeks the
first thing back
in england will be schools lots of
speculation in the papers this morning
about outdoor hospitality things like
pubs potentially coming
a few weeks later too we'll get more
details as i say in a couple of weeks
okay look forward to that of course
we'll keep a close eye nick thanks very
much
well thousands of coronavirus home
testing kits that were taken in a surge
testing program around bristol have not
been returned yet
public health officials have targeted
specific locations there to try to
control and suppress
the spread of covert 19 variants
residents living in
24 bristol and south gloucestershire
postcodes are being strongly encouraged
to get those tests and return the home
kit as quickly as possible
senators in the united states are
expected to deliver a verdict on the
impeachment trial of donald trump later
today
lawyers representing the former
president say that he used routine
political rhetoric when telling
supporters to
fight like hell shortly before a mob
stormed the capital in january
democrats say he incited insurrection
and want him barred from holding
office in future the government says
it's confident that their post-brexit
worst case scenario involving thousands
of lorries being stuck in
kent has been avoided the assessment is
based on
data showing that the flow of lorries
has returned to
normal levels this month however the
figures also show a notable rise
in the number of empty lorries going
back to the eu
the government's getting rid of a cap of
95 000 pounds on public
sector redundancy payments it comes
after unions argued that the measure
would affect workers earning as little
as 25
000 pounds a year ministers say they're
looking for new ways to tackle excessive
payouts for higher earners
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news